Dear fellow practitioners, many
people say, "I've achieved enlightenment, but I won't
reveal it. If I do, it will be
lost."  I'll just focus on my spiritual practice; everyone else can take care of their own
affairs.
Today, I would like to share a Buddhist scripture
to help us understand
what should be said,
how saying it will benefit us,
and what should not be said and how it
will not bring any benefit.
Dear fellow practitioners, I would like to quote from the
long sutra translated into Vietnamese by Venerable Thich Minh
Chau.  Kinh Lo.
Thus I heard that at one time the Buddha
was traveling in the country of Kostana
with a large assembly of about 500 monks and
came to Salavatica,
a village surrounded by palm trees.  At
that time, the Brahmin Lohika was residing in
Salvatica,
a densely populated place.  The land, with its
abundant vegetation, ponds, and grains, originally belonged to the
king.  After the Persian king granted
him a share of the profits, the
Brahmin Nohika then conceived the following evil view
.
In this world, there are monks or Brahmins who
attain the path of virtue.  After attaining
enlightenment, one should not tell others
about it, because who can help another person in return?
It's like someone cutting the old rope used to
tie something together and then making a new one
.  We say that achievement is an evil
practice, a greedy practice, because no one can truly help
another.  In other words, this Brahmin
held the view that if
a monk or Brahmin attained
enlightenment and achieved
those virtuous deeds, they should not
tell others about it because they would not be
able to help others.
If I tell others, it's
like I've just untied a
rope—meaning I've just attained enlightenment—
and now I have to tie the rope back on, meaning I
lose that enlightenment again.
Therefore, many people who hold this view
say, "I've achieved enlightenment, but I won't reveal it. If I
do, it will be lost."
This is exactly what the Buddha taught
us.  Therefore, this
is a wrong view, an evil view.  Yen continued reading
the scriptures.  The Brahmin Likica heard that Saon
Gotama, a Buddhist monk from the
Shakya clan, was traveling in Cala
with a large assembly of about 500 monks and
had now arrived in Salavatica.   The
following good rumors
circulated about the ascetic Gotama.
He is the Buddha, the perfectly enlightened Arhat
, possessing
perfect wisdom and conduct, having made all vows and understanding the world, the supreme being who controls men, the teacher of gods and humans, the Buddha, the
World Honored One.  He attained
enlightenment through this world, encompassing the celestial realm, the
demonic realm, the Brahma realm, and the
ascetics, Brahmins, gods, and
humans.  He attained enlightenment through his own wisdom and
then revealed it to all beings.
He preached the Dharma, expounding the initial,
intermediate, and ultimate virtues, presenting a perfectly
complete and pure conduct; how wonderful it would be to
meet such an Arhat.  That is to say,
these Brahmins held the wrong view that anyone who had
attained enlightenment should not tell
others, but they conceived the idea that the
Buddha was such an enlightened being.  And
this Brahmin wanted to go and pay
homage to the Buddha.
Yen continued reading the scriptures.  The Brahmin Noika
said to
Hika, "This barber is a kind man, and
Hika, go to the ascetic Gotama on
my behalf and ask him if he is free from illness,
suffering, and is in good health, full of energy, and
joyful."  The Venerable Gotama, a Brahmin named Lika,
inquired whether the Buddha was free from illness, had little
distress, was at peace, and possessed abundant energy and joy
.  And he added, "May the Blessed One accept the
invitation of the Brahmin loik to have a
meal with the assembly of monks tomorrow morning."  That is,
this Brahmin told the
barbers to go and invite the Buddha.
They inquired about the Buddha's well-being, greeted the
Buddha, and then invited the Buddha and the
monks to come so that the Brahmins could make
offerings.  Yen continued reading the scriptures.  The venerable one replied, "Yes."
By Ha, the barber, obeying the instructions of the
Brahmin Loica, came to the Buddha and sat
down to one side.  After sitting down to one
side, Hica, the barber, bowed to the Buddha.   The
Brahmin Hiloka asked the
Buddha if he was free from illness and distress, at ease, full of
energy, and happy.  And
he added that he hoped the Buddha would accept the invitation
of the Brahmin Nika to come and have a
meal with the assembly of monks tomorrow morning.  The Buddha
silently accepted the invitation, meaning the barber
had already gone to invite him.  The Buddha remained
silent and accepted the request.   The
barber learned that the Buddha had accepted
his request.  Rising from his seat, he bowed to the
Buddha.  The disabled man turned towards him and went to the
Brahmin loica.  Upon arriving, they immediately addressed the
Brahmin Lik, saying, "We have
spoken on behalf of the Venerable One to the Buddha. The
Brahmin Noika inquired whether the Buddha
Gotama was free from illness, had little distress, was at ease, and possessed
abundant energy."  And he added,
"May the Blessed One accept the invitation of the Brahmin
Noika to come and have a meal with the assembly of monks tomorrow morning,
and the Blessed One has accepted."
Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we
must learn here.  This is of
paramount importance: what did the
Brahmin tell the barber to say to the
Buddha?  And after the barber
returns to report to the Buddha, he will repeat
exactly what he said to the
Brahmin.  And we
usually have a habit.  If someone tells
us to say something or asks us to
say something to someone, we
just reply that the message has been conveyed
.
That's very dangerous.  The
danger is that we might say things that
distort the meaning of the message, and
we might add to or omit details
.
So what lesson can we learn
from this?  The lesson is that if
someone tells you to go and tell them
something, then after you've heard it, you
have to repeat it yourself.  Is this what I told them
?
And after you've gone and told them, you have to come back and
say that you told them
these things.  How about that?  Is that correct?  That's
how much wisdom you gain from listening to a Dharma lecture
.  So we do this
to cultivate an
honest character and transfer to ourselves the
karma, or embellishment and fabrication, accumulated from many
lifetimes.  These are the benefits of listening to Dharma teachings
.  Then we will get that benefit
.  Yen continued reading the scriptures.
Then, after the night had ended, the Brahmin woman Loik
prepared at home exquisite dishes, both
hard and soft, and told Bik,
the barber, that the kind Hesa ​​woman
should go to Saon Gotama.  When you arrive,
inform the ascetic Gotama of the time.  Venerable Buddha,
the meal is ready.   The
venerable one replied, "Yes."  The barber replied.
Bima, the barber, obeyed the
Brahmin Lika's instructions and went to see the Buddha.  Upon arriving, they immediately paid
homage to the Buddha and stood to one side.  After
standing to one side, Bika, the barber, told
Sam the time for the Gotama ceremony.  Venerable Buddha, the time has
come, the meal is ready.
At that time, the Buddha put on his robe, took his
alms bowl, and went with the monks to
Salavatica.   See
?  Reverend brothers and sisters, whatever the
barber heard from the Brahmin, he
reported it exactly to the Buddha
.
That's what we see we're
lacking, what we need to learn
from, what we need to
practice.  I am very happy to have the opportunity to learn
the teachings of the Buddha.  Clam continued reading the
scriptures.  At that time, Hica, the barber,
was walking behind the Buddha.  Then Hika,
the white-haired woman, the Brahmin
Lohica, might have the following evil view: that in this
world there is a monk or Brahmin who
has attained virtuous conduct.  After attaining
enlightenment, one should not tell others about it,
because who can help another person in return?
It's like someone cutting the rope they're using to tie something together and then
making a new one
.  We say that achievement is the result of evil deeds and
greed.  Because who can possibly help another person
?  Venerable Lord, it would be wonderful if you
could help the Brahmin Nūhika to eradicate
that evil view.  The Buddha replied, "Bika,
that is possible.
That is possible. Reverend brothers and sisters
, the barber has reported
to the Buddha about the views of the
Brahmins.
We may have
friends, fellow practitioners, who hold
erroneous views, and
we can report them to the Sangha so that they may
help us understand and abandon those
wrong and evil views." (The text continues.)
At that time, the Buddha was at the residence of the
Brahmin Likica, and he sat down on the prepared seat
. The Brahmin Likica personally prepared a feast for the
monks, with the Buddha as the leader,
with delicious dishes of both hard and
soft textures. After the Buddha had
finished eating and his hands had
left the bowl, the Brahmin Likica took another low stool
and sat down to one side. Then the Buddha
said to the Brahmin Likica, "Is it true that
you hold the following evil view: 'In this
world, are there any ascetics or Brahmins who
attain good deeds?'"  After attaining
enlightenment, one should not tell others
about it, because who can help another person in return?
It's like someone cutting the old rope used to
tie something together and then making a new one
.  We say that such achievement is
evil, driven by greed, because who would ever do something to help
another?   When the
Buddha asked this question, the Brahmin
replied, "Yes, Venerable Gotama."
Yen continued reading the scriptures.  Hey Noika,
what do you think? Are you in
Salvador?   The
Brahmin replied, "Yes, Venerable
Gotama."  The Buddha then asked, "
Noika, if someone says that the Brahmin Noika
lives in Salavatica,
let her enjoy
all the produce of Salavatica alone, and
not give it to anyone else, wouldn't that be
creating an obstacle for someone who
depends on you for their livelihood?"  In other words,
the Buddha was asking, if someone were to
tell everyone that all the
products of Salavatica
should be for Salavatica alone,
would that cause any
trouble for him?
Yen will give an example using a quote like
this.  The Buddha asked, "Miss Yen, do
you live among your community of Buddhist followers
?"  Then Yen replied, "Yes, sir."
So, if someone were to say that everything that
belongs to Ms. Yen cannot be taken by anyone else,
would that create an obstacle for Yen
?   Would
that create an obstacle?  Yes
.  I live among the masses, yet I keep everything that
belongs to me for myself alone
.  No one in the general public should benefit from
that.  So, who got to hear Yen's kind words
?  Wouldn't that be a way to ease
Yen's embarrassment?  Have.  So, in this passage of scripture
, the Buddha taught this.  If
this Brahmin Lika lived in
Salavatica,
and someone came and said that
all the products of Salavatica should be for
him alone, and no
one else, would that be a
problem?  Then, Yen continued reading
the scripture.  The Brahmin replied that the venerable
Gotama
was the one causing the obstruction.  That means the
person who said that caused an obstacle
for the Brahmin Lica.
The Buddha then asked, "Loika, when
someone creates an obstacle, is that person
someone who has compassion and thinks of the benefit of
others?"  Okay.  The Buddha then asked
whether those who caused the obstacles
were truly compassionate people.  The
Brahmin replied, "Venerable
Gotama
is a person who lacks compassion and does not consider his own
interests."
The Buddha then asked, "If one does not have a compassionate
mind that thinks of the benefit of others, does that mind dwell in
compassion or in a mind that dwells in harm?"   The
Brahmin replied to the venerable Gotama that he was harming his
mind.  The Buddha then asked, "When one uses
such mantras to harm the mind, is that right view or wrong view?"   The
Brahmin replied, "Venerable Gotaba holds wrong
views."
The Buddha then said, "Loica, I
say that a person with wrong views will be reborn
into one of the following two evil realms: hell or
animal."  Those who hold such evil views
will be reborn in hell or as animals.
"Hey, Nohika, what do you think? Is
King Lakshmi of Persia residing in Kausala
?"   The
Brahmin replied, "Venerable Gotama, yes, that is
correct."  The Buddha then asked, "Loica, if
someone says that
the king of Persia lives in
Casala,
let the king of Persia enjoy all the
products of Casala alone, and
no one else."  Was the person who said that
creating obstacles for those who
depended on the Persian king, Lakshman
?
In other words, the
Buddha asked: If King Pasenadi
lived in this city, and someone said that
the products there were for
King Pasenadi alone to enjoy, would that be an
obstacle to King Pasenadi
?   The
Brahmin replied, "Venerable Gotama is the one who
created the obstacle."
The Buddha continued, "Nuo Hika, when
someone causes an obstacle, is that person
compassionate enough to think of the benefit
of others, or is that person not
compassionate enough to think of the benefit of
others?"   The
Brahmin replied, "Venerable Gotama is a person who
lacks compassion and does not consider his own benefit."  The
Buddha then asked, "If a person lacks compassion and does not consider
benefit, are they abiding in compassion or in
harm?"   The
Brahmin replied, "Venerable Gotama is harmful to the
mind."  The Buddha then asked, "When the grace of
God harms the mind, is that avoiding wrong views or
wrong views?"  The Brahmin replied, "Venerable Gotama
holds wrong views."  The Buddha taught, "Loik ta,"
that a person with wrong views will be reborn into
one of two evil realms: hell
or animal.  The Buddha said, "Noika,
if anyone says that the Brahmin Noik lives in
Savatica, let the Brahmin Lohica enjoy
all the products of Salavatica alone, and
not give any to anyone else."  The person who says that
is the one who creates obstacles for whomever they want,
depending on your perspective.  A person who creates
obstacles lacks compassion and does not consider the
benefit of others.  That person, having appeased God and
harmed their heart, belongs to the realm of wrong views.
Thus, Nāka, if someone says that
there is a monk or Brahmin in the world who has
attained virtuous conduct, after attaining
virtuous conduct, one should not tell others about it
.  Because who can possibly help another person?
It's like someone cutting the old rope used to
tie something together and then making a new one
.  We say that achievement is the result of evil deeds and
greed.  Because who can possibly help another person?
In other words, the Buddha was reiterating the views
of the Brahmins.
Then the Buddha taught that such speech creates
obstacles for virtuous disciples to come
to the Dharma taught by the Tathagata
and attain special and superior fruits
such as stream-entry or
Arhatship.  Such statements also create
obstacles for those who are striving to achieve
rebirth in the heavenly realms to be
born as deities.  A person who creates
obstacles lacks compassion and does not
think about their own benefit.  That person, having appeased God
and harmed their heart, belongs to the realm of wrong
views.  Noika, I say that a
person with wrong views will be reborn into one of
two evil realms: hell or
animal.  Dear fellow practitioners, when
we practice, we must be able to share
what we have achieved with
others so that they can learn from us.
That is what the Buddha taught.  But Yen also
wants to remind our fellow practitioners about
a matter when encouraging others to practice
Buddhism.
There are
extremes, such as when we practice the Dharma of
reciting "Nam Mô A Di Đà Phật" (Homage to Amitabha Buddha), and the
teachers say this practice is for dedicating merit to
rebirth in the Western Pure Land.  However,
those who chant only listen
and then go on to encourage others,
which is incorrect encouragement.
Because I heard that I have to prove it first before
I can speak about it.  Therefore, the
scriptures say that after one attains
the state of being reborn in the heavenly realm, it means that we
must first attain that state ourselves before we can
guide others to follow
suit.  If those who guide
others to recite the name of Amitabha Buddha in
order to be reborn in the Pure Land, then they
must be in a state of readiness for rebirth, meaning they are
free from greed, hatred, and delusion, and have no remaining
attachments whatsoever, before they can
guide others.  Or
those who instruct others to
recite this incantation and they will receive this,
this, or that.
This instructor is wrong.
You have to read it yourself and get what
you want, or get what other
people have.  For example, someone might say, "
My child is very naughty."
So when they came in, they instructed me to recite the Great Compassion Mantra
.  First, I have to recite the Great Compassion Mantra to cure
my own child of misbehavior and make them well-behaved
before I can go and teach
others.  Do you understand this point clearly, esteemed disciple
?  The point here is that you have to say it, but then
you have to prove it.  Those
who go around giving encouragement are people whose
families have already overcome that challenge and
have experienced it firsthand before they are allowed to speak about it.  Once you've achieved the
right results, people will
encourage others to do the same.  That has only recently been
said, so there are many wrong things happening in Buddhist practice now
.  Whenever they hear
something great, they try it and then
encourage others to do the same.  Remember,
in this passage of scripture, we must
achieve that goal.
Is this explanation clear enough, teacher?  That must be achieved.
This is how we speak the
truth.
Yen asked to continue reading the scripture.
Now, Noika, if anyone says that King
Patriarch is living in Casicosala,
let King Patriarch enjoy
all the products of Casicosala alone, and
not give any to anyone else.  The person who says that is
creating an obstacle for those whose lives
depend on them.  A
person who poses a danger has no desire for
happiness.  Having no desire for happiness,
that person finds peace in God, and finding peace in God harms the
mind, which is a form of wrong view.  That is how it is,
Nha, if someone says that in this world there is a monk who
has attained the virtue of goodness.  To attain
enlightenment means one has already realized that
truth.  In other words, "learning through contemplation and practice" means that
people hear about that Dharma, contemplate about
that Dharma, and then practice it to reap
the rewards of that Dharma.  For example, we
hear the Buddha teach that we should not harbor evil thoughts
because harboring evil thoughts leads to suffering and
distress.  After I heard that,
someone came and treated
me badly.  I have no malicious intentions.  And
after refraining from harboring malicious thoughts, I find
my mind at peace, and my relationships with
others become more pleasant. When I compare this to the state where
I previously
harbored malicious thoughts, and I find myself
happy, that is what I call
attaining the Dharma I have heard.  Do you understand this point clearly
?  The realization of the Dharma that has been heard.
It's about listening, thinking, and
practicing, with proven results.  That's why
I said it's about attaining enlightenment.  In this
world, there are monks who have attained the path of virtue.
After realizing the virtuous deeds, do not tell
others.  Because no one can do it
for another person.  It's like someone cutting the
old rope used to tie something together and then making a
new one.  We say that achievement
is the result of evil deeds and greed.  Because who can possibly
help another person?  Such words create
obstacles for the virtuous Lam Tu to access
the teachings of the Buddha
and attain the supreme and exceptional fruits
such as stream-entry, non-stream-entry, or
Arhatship.  Such statements endanger
those who are striving for
rebirth in the heavenly realms to become
deities.  A person who creates obstacles
lacks compassion and does not consider the well-
being of others.  That person finds peace in God, and finding peace in God
harms the mind; that is, it belongs to wrong views.  And, O
Lika, I say that a person with wrong views
will be reborn into one of two evil realms:
hell or animal.  Yen will analyze
this in the sutra.
That is, the Buddha taught that if there is a wrong view
that someone who has attained enlightenment should not
tell others about it.  Because if I tell
others, I'll just be creating
more constraints for myself.  To say that
is to be greedy for the law.  That means we have practiced the Dharma,
we have gained benefits from it, and then we go and
tell others about it; that is called sharing the Dharma.
That is a wrong view.  The Buddha taught
that this hinders someone who has already
attained enlightenment from inspiring
others to achieve higher
spiritual states.  These two opposing factors will
cause a person with
such wrong views to be reborn
as an animal or in hell after death.  Therefore,
when we hear someone say
that we shouldn't tell others what
we already know, what
we have practiced and attained,
because it might hinder us, we should tell them
not to hinder it.  Because obstructing
that will lead to rebirth in hell or as an
animal.  That means I
say what I see, and I
say what I know.  What is it?  It's about
gender, it's about speaking the truth,
regardless of who is speaking
it.  And the Buddha didn't say
who he heard it from; the Buddha simply said this
.
Buddhist monks are a great field of merit.
And the Buddha said, "
Listen attentively to the teachings and practice them; you will
receive great benefits, right?"  So, whoever
speaks the Buddha's teachings and brings
benefit to everyone should also
listen, shouldn't you, dear fellow practitioners?
Through this sutra, we learn, and
we write clearly, how to
behave in the 4.0 era.
May our esteemed fellow practitioners be
diligent in protecting the righteous path.
Protect the law.  Homage to the Buddha
Shakyamuni.
[Applause]
[Music]
Is